Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
From  dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number 544.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Jason Scott about archiving digital
experiences using emulation. Hi, This
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today we're talking with
Jason Scott, he's the creator and
the owner of text files.com
a very popular website that
archives files from historic bulletin
board systems. I had a
BBS and I think I
was actually mentioned in his
2005 documentary film about PBS
is called BBS the documentary,
and he also is a
historian and archivist. Thanks so
much for chatting with me.
Ain't no problem. I I'm
been a big fan for
many, many years because I
had a BBS early on.
I ran a FIDOnet node
and I really feel like
the young people today don't
appreciate how much amazing software
was created before they were
born. And it seems like
a lot of that software
is disappearing. Like we won't
be able to run these
things ever again. Yeah. You
know, the thing with software
is that it both functions
and powers, everything that we
live with in every single
way, but it's also not
really been regarded on its
own as a piece of
artwork or social artifact that
we would preserve. Like we
might preserve an old painting
or even an old menu.
And I think some of
the world is coming around
to that now. But in
the meantime we've had, you
know, honestly over 50 years
of software going on and
over 30 years of what
we would think of as
the home computer or the
personal computer. And so, yeah,
there's a lot of history
down there of something people
don't think of his history.
Yeah. In the past, you
know, people will use to
respect the URL or the
URI. We used to have
the phrase cool URS don't
change. And then the Wayback
machine came along and people
take that for granted the
idea that like, Oh, well,
if that URL is gone,
I'll just to archive.org and
they'll have a copy or
I'll go to the Google
cache and they'll have a
copy. But with software, there's
quite a bit of setup
to even to, to emulate
a system. And also a
lot of thankless work being
done on the part of
the, by the writers of
the emulators themselves. Yeah. You
know, when people think of
software there's stuff that maybe
they don't think of software
at all, like the stuff
that drives their elevators or
stuff that makes traffic lights
go. But then there's like
the very obvious software, like
a paint program or a
sound program that you used,
or an app that you're
using right now that is
some sort of a game
or, or maybe it just
keeps track of something for
you on your phone. And
all of those items all
are depending on an environment
that itself is completely shifting
and is running on hardware
that will be considered obsolete
and anything from two years
ago to 10 years from
now. And that software is
something that as time goes
on, has to depend on
technologies like emulation to keep
running and emulation for like
a lot of things in
the world doesn't just happen.
You know, it doesn't just
make itself work. And so
there are people who going
back over the past 20
years to be honestly, I've
tried their best to be
able to recreate older computers
and computer environments and game
environments and electronic environments in
your computer, your modern computer,
and keep it maintained and
accurate. And this is a
Sisyphean task in every single
way. Indeed. My first kind
of foray was a selfish
one. And I think that
we'll speak about motivations in
a minute, but selfishly, I
wanted to use, you know,
maim, the multi arcade machine
emulator to play games that
so I didn't have to
go to the arcade. That's
an extremely selfish thing. I
wonder what the motivations are
on the part of the
main people. Are they historians
and archivists or do they
just want to play games
too? So there's a whole
bunch of people who have
worked on the main project
over the years and they
seem to have had a
range of things. I've definitely
seen people who had a
very specific game, maybe they
even own that game. And
they've wanted to ensure that
that game lives on forever.
But the fact is is
that over time, the system
could emulate old arcades and
old computers, you know, relatively
well. And so what they
started to focus on was
finding similarities between all of
these machines so that they
would only have to emulate
one aspect of machines once
and then keep going. And
as a result, it quickly
moved away from a developer.
Who's doing it for kicks
and developers that are trying
focus on a longterm comprehensive
emulation of literally the computer
human experience. And so it's
actually been rather inspiring to
watch them over the course
of the last five years
of this project. I've been
working on to see how
they themselves think of machines.
And I always stress, you
know, if you search for
my name in the code
of Maine, you will not
find it. I am not
a developer. I'm just somebody
who works with people towards
goals. And as we'll I'm
sure go into my big
goal was I wanted emulators
to run inside of a
browser in a way that
enabled you to one click
access old software. And to
do that, I went with
the biggest game in town,
literally, which is Mame because
their emulator covers thousands and
thousands of arcade games and
thousands of computer platforms. And
I knew that if we
got that running in the
browser, all of these other
machines would come to life.
Yeah. Maine has become almost
like an emulator of emulators.
It's like, there's a driver
that like it, it has
the structure around the emulator
and it allows people to
then add on different CPS
and different systems. Doesn't it,
it's not one of the
things that really fascinates me
about watching a mature project
like Maine and Maine has
basically routes well into the
nineties and has all these
different philosophies that have been
kind of caked into it
over the years. And one
of them is that machines
are basically collections of parts,
which sounds obvious, but what
they would do is they
would emulate a chip as
well as they can. And
they would emulate different kinds
of machinery as well as
they can. And then they
would say, well, here's a
machine. What is it? Well,
it's a set of this
chip and this chip, and
then this small custom part.
And so they would be
able to build new machines
relatively quickly. And so that
philosophy means that every time
they would do a new
version, they might add a
pile of new hardware because
that new hardware quote unquote
is using off the shelf
parts and they would pull
those off the shelf parts
from within maim already. And
then just work on the
small amount. That's different. It's
been kind of rather inspiring
to watch as I'll see
them emulate a machine that
I've never heard of in
a million years and suddenly
it's working. And they constantly
consistently prefer to have the
board, which is also interesting,
like what I've seen when
somebody says, Hey, we'd like
to emulate this. They say,
show us the board, like,
please take a large picture
of the board of the
circuit so that we can
look at the circuit because
the circuit is the documentation
of how it was really
built, as opposed to say
some manual that implies that
it's built this way, exactly
Board and its existence as
the expression of its intent
and the only documentation it
is, the fact it works
like this. Whether someone wrote
down that they thought it
might work like this, or
it was intended to work
like this, the fact is
it's shipped this way and
we will emulate it as
it was shipped. Yeah. So
that to me has been,
it's been kind of amazing
to watch them in, in,
in, in progress and everything
else. I mean, every day
that group of developers is
doing anywhere between, I've seen
as many as a hundred
and as small as 30
new changes where they've made
changes every day for years
on end to improve things,
to fix bugs, to, to
make things more flexible. It's
been really, I mean, quite
inspiring to watch. I have
a, a main machine behind
me that I've built like
a full sized RK that
I built from scratch. And
what is the relationship though,
between the Mame kind of
CNC plus plus app that
we've been running for many,
many years. And how did
that jump into the browser?
Like how did they compile
it to JavaScript? And then
is that another project? Is
it downstream of main? Sure.
So what happened is that
of course, Mame, like I
said, was really mature years
and years ago, they made
a very specific set of
design decisions. It's very flexible.
You can always find a
faster emulator of some platform
or set of platforms that's
being hand maintained by one
or two people, but you
won't have that universal access.
So maim sacrifices, a little
bit of speed, although too,
obviously, most machines today that
wouldn't matter at all in
the name of accuracy and
university Allity. So that system
has been in place for
quite some time. And when
we decided we wanted to
work on the idea of
putting maim into a browser,
I looked around at what
possibilities there were, and we
have a number of ways
to execute code in a
browser. You know, things like
Java people would know about
Java or perhaps some sort
of specialized plugin that goes
into Chrome or Firefox or
another browser that kind of
brings up executable code in
a small encapsulated piece. But
what I fell on to
was the fact that quietly,
without anybody really jumping into
it or anything JavaScript had
matured to the point that
it was in pretty much
every browser had an enormous
amount of flexibility and an
inability to do everything from
control keyboards and, and run
video and sound to networking
even. And it wasn't under
control of one person or
one entity, a thing like
Java, as we saw with
something as simple as the
Google quote son in print
in quotes, a lawsuit was
that there were still commercial
entities that thought of the
Java world as somebody, but
nobody really owned Java, just
like nobody really owned HTML.
You don't get a cease
and desist for using an,
a anchor from HTML and
you don't get a cease
and desist by using Java
script. And so the JavaScript
language has had a couple
of advancements over the years.
And one of them was
that there were a couple
companies who had written bridging
applications to go from C
plus plus to Java script.
So you could literally compile
JavaScript as the target of
a C plus plus file.
Now this technology was relatively
new. There were a couple
people who were selling a
compiler, but there was also
an open source version and
it was called M scripting.
And it was being run
by the Mozilla foundation. And
there's a fellow there Alonza
Kai, he's been the day
to day maintainer of that
code for years now. And
when we first set out
on the project, a number
of people came forward. I
asked for volunteers and one
of them was a dope
fish, Justin, who had been
working on the main project
for years. And he was
fascinated by this. And there's,
there's, vectorial Malano and there's
James Baton cow. And there's
a bunch of people who
have been kind of, kind
of drifting into the project
and then working endless nights.
And they were all fascinated
at this project idea because
the outcome would be theoretically
miraculous. And so when we
first started using him script
and give you an idea,
I mean, you've seen this
in many projects, I'm sure
it took us. It took
us, I think something on
the order of nine months
to make a collegial vision
run at 5% speed inside
of a browser. And then
within a month we had
10 machines running at 50%.
And then within two months
we had 50 machines running
at anywhere from 50 to
a hundred percent. Oh my.
And so it was, it
kind of iterated up very
quickly and people would come
in and we would get
people who looked at it
and said, you know, you're
setting this and that's kind
of weird. Or we would
hand it back to the
subscription team or the Firefox
team. I mean, over time,
I mean, to have a
project is low. I mean
the whole point of something
like an am script and
was, Oh, you wrote a
calculator or you wrote a
database application, or you wrote
this small program, Hey, now
it's JavaScript. Isn't that great
everything's wine and roses. And
here we were throwing this
decade plus old massive project
that was meant to do
this incredibly complicated thing into
a browser and through them
script. And, and so the
first time I think we
did it, it produced 75
megabytes of JavaScript code and
it made Firefox crash and
Chrome thought it was broken
and we caused code changes
to Firefox, to Chrome, to
IM script in and to
maim because everybody had things
they never expected would be
important. Like there was code
in Firefox, for example, that
would do a quick check
of a JavaScript program to
make sure that it was
functional. And we had more
than a hundred thousand lines
of code that was in
JavaScript and it would crash
Firefox. So Firefox added a
thing that said, if it's
that big, don't just, just
let it go. And Chrome
had a few things where
it made calls and it
turned out it wasn't compatible
and they fixed it and
so on. And then Mame
itself had a number of
approaches that needed a special
kind of sound device to
work with the web and
so on. But when it
was all said and done,
at one point we had
it that it was down
to, I want to say
about eight or nine megabytes
of JavaScript code to do
a specific machine emulation. And
then under the way that
JavaScript works, it actually compresses
down to like less than
a Mac. So for less
than a mag, you would
have a working Apple to,
or a working asteroids machine.
So we ended up with
this environment and what ended
up happening was when I
first started it, there was
great skepticism among the main
team that this was even
a good idea. There was
skepticism in many areas that
this was a, in any
way, a good use of
resources or time or a
solution. And what ended up
happening was that last year
and into this year, maim
actually absorbed our entire project.
So there is now direct
support for compiling, with JavaScript
as a target in Maine,
which means that technically the
project that I worked on
has been 100% obsoleted. That
is to say, we don't
have to write any code
to make meme, compile cleanly
into JavaScript because now maim
recognizes JavaScript as one of
its official outputs, along with
Macintosh and, and OSX and,
and, and you know, windows
and everywhere else. So that,
you know, that was a
huge step. And one of
the side effects of that
of course, is that compiling
out to the newest version
of meme. Cause a new
version of meme comes out
every month. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by brain tree payments.
Why make payment integration more
difficult than it has to
be? Braintree's powerful, full stack
payment platform allows you to
accept nearly any type of
payment from any device. With
one integration, it's flexible to
your system's needs, supports most
programming languages. So whether you're
using Java, Ruby, or Python,
you'll always have a range
of service side and client
side SDKs available. Braintree makes
payments and your job a
whole lot easier. You can
learn more@braintreepayments.com slash Hanselman. That's
Braintree payments.com/hanselman. The internet archive,
where I work and where
we have this running can
have the newest changes to
maim in our web version
within the day of there
being improvements. And if somebody
makes an improvement immediately to
fix a major bug, we
can just turn around and
have that copy. Whereas previously
it was a very, you
know, bespoke and bunch of
people working together and then
dropping hints to each other.
And we would slowly produce
the new version. Now it's
pretty much automated. And so
that's great to, to describe
to a greater extent what
we're talking about here as
a philosophy. My goal always
had been, I mean, the
reason why I spent a
few years, you know, hurting
people into this and talking
about it was because I
realized that with a lot
of the history, the software
history, yeah. I can sit
here and I do and
make images of CD ROMs
or image floppies or image
cassette tapes with data on
them. And then we would
end up with a big
pile of data that would
have meaning to a vanishingly,
small number of people who
they might say, okay, I
want this, I will download
it. I will make it
work in an emulator. I
will analyze it and everything
else, but that that's not
how people work. And that's
not how value is recognized
in this history. You know,
if somebody said to you,
trust me, there's, there's lots
of paintings and they're in
the warehouse and we have
them in boxes and don't
worry. They're good. People would
be like, Oh, okay. How
do I see the paintings?
Oh, by appointment with a
month warning that, you know,
people wouldn't give money to
museums because they'd say, well,
where's the stuff. And what
they do is they put
the stuff up on the
wall. They make sure it's
maintained and everything else. And
with movies and old radio
shows and old texts, if
a person can go to
a website and in one
click read an old newspaper
or read an old magazine,
they recognize both the contributions
that magazine. And they're able
to reference it and use
it in their work. They
say, Hey, look at this,
this was noted in this
magazine, here's a link. Or
Hey, somebody made something that
feels much like an analog
to what we're dealing with
today 50 years ago. Here's
what it looked like. You
know, we just become richer
as a society. And as
a group of people who
are working on anything that
touches a historical basis. And
so I wanted that for
software. And so in the
same way that you don't
even think about the fact
that somebody links you to
a YouTube video or a
Vimeo or, or something else,
and you just watch it,
I wanted it to be
so transparent and seamless that
a person would say, huh,
somebody made something like this
app for the Apple two.
Here's what it looked like.
And then just linking you
and beep, and there's an
Apple two running in your
browser and what it was
like, and you try it.
And, you know, in terms
of how people in the
world regard it, I mean,
I can tell you that,
you know, thousands and thousands
of people are using this
software emulator in the browser
now in a way ranging
from just enjoying old entertainment
that they used to play
as a kid, you know,
in other words, a personal
narrative, or they're using it
to reference things in classes
or their writings, or to
use as a jumping off
point for their own work.
And so the fact that
it's becoming transparent and that
the hard work underneath it
is not necessarily at the
forefront of people's minds is
actually to me an incredible
sign of success because you
don't wake up. I mean,
you know, there are dozens
of tests that the YouTube
player does to your browser,
to your system when you
run it to make sure
it gives you the smoothest
experience, it figures out where
you are and how your
machine runs to give you
video. That is as smooth
as possible and working as
well as it can with
your network. But you don't,
you don't, you know, boot
up a new Brittany Spears video
and think, Oh, these brave
engineers they're working so hard.
Oh my God, can you
imagine how they're able to
keep this high definition thing
going? Even though I'm downloading
this in the background, that's
amazing. Like you don't eat.
I understand that just like
you don't drive over a
bridge and thank the 500
people that make that bridge
not fall down. And the
fact that you're not taken
out of the experience and
that it boots up and
that you're looking at a
computer or an old arcade
game or an old computer
in the browser is just
great to me. So, so
it's nice because in the
last couple of years, we've
really had a success in
that area. And so it's,
it's, it's not perfect. And
we certainly can whip out
tests that show you how
imperfect it is, but when
it works, it's just in
the background. The most prominent
one right now is the
number one item that people
go to, to the internet
archive for, for the software
reason. And I buy often
go, I mean, every eight
seconds, a new one boots
up is Oregon trail for
dos. And it's used by
schools classic. Yeah, it's an
absolute classic it's timeless. It's,
it's just, it's literally as
timeless as Washington crossing the
Delaware or a Beethoven symphony
in terms of how beautifully
it brings all of these
historical aspects of the Oregon
trail and the, the difficulty
of using, you know, oxen
and a big pile of
wood, dragging it across a
state, combined with lessons in
economics and resource management and
history. I mean, you know,
it's, it's this brilliant piece
of work and it's still
in use, like people are
booting it up from schools
in, in browsers. And having
people play these games because
it's really, really functional. I
mean, yeah, people will boot
up a Pac-Man clone or
an arcade machine clone and
so on. But yeah, educational
software in some ways is
very evergreen. Like we, we
haven't changed how we understand
how fractions work. So an
educational program that was written
by experts and is of
good quality and time has
shown to be good. Quality
still works, you know, plunk
a kid in front of
it and they're going to
learn. And the fact that
it just functions that way
is to me, just really
amazing. And, and so it's,
it's become interwoven into a
certain amount of the fabric
of life. At this point,
You, you said in 2011,
when you kicked off this
idea, when you said, I
want to help port MES
and maim to JavaScript that
you had, basically, we're moving
from dealing with artifacts, to
dealing with experiences like you've
collected all these text files
and collected all these artifacts
and these graphics and all
these things, but they are,
they are artifacts, as opposed
to saying, here is an
experience and you have this
great sentence here where you
say, you want to take
someone from, I wonder what
it was like to play
shoplifter to, wow, I'm playing
shoplifter. And five years later
that has happened. It's exactly
that I give, I show
my kids the game, I
give them the URL, they
go to it. And it's
not that they're watching a
video. It's not that they're
looking at screenshots. They are
experiencing it. And you're even
going so far to make
it look the way it
was. I'm looking at a
demo here of CRT effects.
Sure. What's going on here?
Okay. So one of the,
one of the great things
about mankind is like Douglas Adams
said, you know, we quickly
go from, you know, how
do I eat to what
is eating to where do
we eat? And, and, and
the fact is, is people
go, Hey, this is, this
is working in my browser.
What an amazing thing to,
well, I remember it a
little differently and I don't
think this is, this is
exactly how it was. You
should really fix that. You
know, like it's a bug
and in the same way
that you might, you know,
play an old movie and
you will have it cropped
or time stretched or the
sound, isn't what you remember.
We quickly run into the
greatest problem that every preservation
project has, which is bringing
back, not just the fact
of a thing and enough
of its attributes for you
to go, yes, that's true.
The woman in the painting
has one head. There is
a, there was a dog
in the painting too. What
is it like to stand
in a gallery with this
painting? And how can I
reproduce that experience? Because that's
part of what the painting's
purpose was, was to wow.
You and with computers and
video games. If you look
back at that experience, it's
both digital, you know, digital
data, but there's actually a
lot of analog experience as
well. We end up with
things like, you know, putting
a disc into a disc,
drive, hearing the grind of
a disc as it would
boot up different parts of
the floppy during the game,
people would tell me, you
know, they, they would play
an old game on an
old computer with a floppy
disc in the machine, and
they would move down a
dungeon. And at one point
they turn a corner and
they would hear the disc
drive light turn on and
grind, and they would reach
over reflexively and pop the
door open because they knew
it was about to write
a death. And so they
knew that they could do
this. They could avoid a
death by stopping the machine
from writing anything floppy. And
that experience is not vital.
I mean, for some people
just knowing that there was
a game that had Dungeons
and death and, and it
was on a computer is
sufficient. But for people who
then try to compare it
to how it really was
things like sound and video
and performance need ironically much
more work to emulate the
flaws and strangeness of the
past. And so one of
those projects that was started
by some people involved with
Mayme was to start emulating
the way that monitors really
worked pre LCD screen pre
flat screen. You know, when
tubes were the order of
the day inside of a
monitor, and it was this
beam that magnets were manipulating
to make phosphorous glow on
a screen so that a
beam aimed at your eye
was being stopped by this
painted curved glass that would
glow and sometimes had a
beam that would be different
colors or actually color on
the glass to be able
to make vector games, right.
Vector games and RCA televisions
actually. And they would bring
out color, but at a
cost of fidelity and Norris,
I mean, you know, we
start out with something as
simple as, you know, UHF
and VHF signals. And then
we started moving to conversion
that would kind of send
a, an earth hats signal
to a television. You would
have to actually, you know,
screw in wires in the
back to make your video
game, use the television, to
changes, to format with things
like S video, which is
now on its way while
not even just on its
way out, it's out the
door, it's down the street
it's gone. And then what
we now have with HTMI
and, and other formats and
the fidelity of how they
put these things together was
calculated into the software. Most
the, the most classic example.
And he's more than happy
to tell you about this
is David Crane, who did pitfall
and a hundred other games
for Activision and many other
companies. When he was working
on video games in the
early eighties, his characters on
the screen calculated a certain
amount of fuzziness built into
the beam so that he
would leave a black Mark
or a black line with
no light on it, because
he knew the line above
and below would blend in
that small gap. And when
he went to quote unquote
hard line, he would use
between two or three black
lines to ensure that the
beam didn't overflow, but he
was trying for a very
smooth and soft experience fast
forward. And now people are
playing these old games and
they look like Lego bricks,
because we don't have that
anymore. I mean, everybody wants
super fidelity. You want to
be able to have a,
you know, 75 dots per
inch monitor. And again, you
know, dialing it back, having
pitfall in your window in
a second after you click
a URL is miraculous and
now commonplace, but there are
going to be iterative improvements
to say, okay, yes, we
did it. Everyone gets a
cake, but wait a minute,
we actually had this attribute.
We would have slightly fuzzy
screens. We would have screens
that bled color. When the
beam stopped running the phosphorus,
doesn't just shut off in
two seconds. It would do
a small afterglow and it
would actually be possible to
burn in if you left
the thing on for too
long and to emulate all
of that is now where
we're headed. And it's much
more processor intensive. It's much
more involved, certainly on certain
machines. The example that we
put up, we took an
old, I took an old
bootleg, or it wasn't so
much a bootleg is kind
of an alternate version of
donkey Kong called crazy Kong.
And it has its own
interesting story. And we put
up a version of it
on the internet archive, just
to enable you to kind
of experience a kind of
subtle, weird video artifacting of
CRTs in 1982, which meme
does. And again, if you
have a slower machine, it
runs much slower now, because
now it's doing a whole
layer of calculation and, and
I've, I've, I've run tests
with people. Not everyone sees
it, which may be the
greatest success of all right.
But, but for some people
they're like, you know, what,
what, what, yeah. Like it's
just not in their head.
Yeah, no, the way, same
way an audio file might
say, I can hear the
difference between this is a
vinyl record and this is
a cassette off of the
master tape in the same
way. You can have people
whose eyes just kind of
bring in like, yup, that's
an old video game and
people who go, wow, how
is it ghosting the character
he's fading as he runs
by suddenly that's amazing. And,
and they'll see it. So,
so that's, you know, that's
one piece of it. And
like I made a reference
to maim is now working
very hard to emulate the
sounds of a floppy drive
that will become a slider.
I'll, I'll be sure to
add that when it's mature
enough, but basically there's been
work to literally sample a
disc drive engine and read
process, so that an accurate
portrayal of what that this
drive sounded like next to
your machine can be included
optionally. And that's the kind
of, that's the kind of
work that like, you know,
I mean, I've been told
there's like six people who
do silk painting restoring in
the world and everybody who
apprentices under them has to
apprentice for 15 or 20
years before they get their
own shot at it. And
there is a very small
amount of people and I
support and care about them
very much who are focused
on this kind of level,
because this is work. That
is, I would say relatively
thankless, not, not in a
bad way, just relatively thankless.
Yeah. Yeah. So as we
reached the end of our
time here, let me ask
you this. Sure. The call
to action to the audience,
isn't just go and experience,
but it's also to appreciate,
and let me ask you
this, how do we support
you? How do we support
textiles? How do we support
archive.org? Is this isn't run
by the government, right? How
do you all get money
and how can we give
you money? So the internet
archive is a nonprofit library
that people know of as
the way back machine and
more and more people know
about for the software and
obviously the books and movies
and music and all the
other things that it hosts.
And it's at archive.org, and
there's an archive.org/donate. And that's
fine. I would love for
people to contribute in ways
that help financially with such
a nonprofit. But beyond that,
if you have a audience
who have technical expertise or
who have influence in the
realm of understanding, you know,
our computer history or presenting
it, I would say, you
know, a project like Maine
and there's other ones really
are depending on really technically
skilled people who are also
working basically for free and
who are constantly on the
move to try to make
sure that some record of
old software and old hardware
persists. And they have like
any large scale project, you
know, rules for adding code.
So if you're a coder,
if you're doing work in
meme and you're helping, it's
going to be reflected in
code that thousands and thousands
of people will use around
the world. So, so there's
a reward there and contributing
your expertise would not just
be, you're helping some nerd
play an old Atari game.
I mean, you are literally
affecting computer history and online
and digital history by doing
this. But beyond that, people
who have old hardware, old
materials who are wondering about
like, does anyone care? We
care and, and I'm not
afraid to give my email
out. J Scott J a
C O T t@archive.org. I
love hearing from people who
are like the, my favorite
letters are, I don't know
if this is of interest,
but because almost always is
of interest, you know? And,
and, and, and people saying,
I don't even know where
to begin with this. I
have stuff maybe it's useful.
Maybe it's not. And just
that mental jump from, like,
if you went up into
your attic and there were
10 old paintings there and
they looked really old and
they were wrapped really nicely,
you wouldn't be like, Oh
no, what do you think?
Can I throw this out?
Do I keep, like, you
would say, man, I better
call local museum. And if
you've got a relative or
yourself, and you've got some
old software, you may be
the last person to have
that software or any record
of that old software and
contacting us to say, look,
I've got some stuff I,
you know, would wonderful that,
that, you know, finance always
helpful. We do fundraising fundraising
drives and, and meme has
fundraising drives to help acquire
rare equipment when it needs
to be purchased. But, but
you know, a technical expertise
and an emotional and supportive
expertise. That's, that's where we
really, really, I think this
thing needs, love. People need
to know, and people need
to help it. And people
need to encourage it in
just a, this is a
valid, wonderful thing that needs
to be done culturally for
the way the world has
been for the last half
century, as important as making
sure that an old film
is still playable and making
sure that an old car
still runs, this is still
really vital and, and needs
to be there for future
generations. Well, I think definitely
the work that you're doing
is absolutely vital. And I
am in awe of the,
the, the Corpus of information
that has been collected since
you were, since you were
nine years old. And I
think I speak on behalf
of the audience that we
appreciate you. We appreciate text
files and we appreciate archive.org.
And thanks so much for
chatting with me today. Hey,
thank you. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and we'll see you again
next week. .